One of the most common problems
in companies, which happens to you
almost we would say that at 99%,
is the loss of direction, the loss
of strategic vision, and this happens
equally in large organizations
than in SMEs, and it is a real pity
because really lose height,
not having clear your strategy,
lose the direction, you will
be away from doing great
things.
I, as I think many of you have,
have been a consultant for many
years and have lived with this
and have had to fight this
permanently as an external
advisor that what you do is help
companies of different sizes
to rise, to the managers to
rise and to see the photo from
above.
What are the problems in particular?
Well, because they are mainly two or
the causes that make us lose direction.
One is daily operation.
This happens to all of us
in our workplaces, to all of us.
The day to day consumes you because
you have to do many things in the
day, many things that in many cases
are urgent, but sometimes they
are urgent but not important.
So what you are doing is permanently
shaking, embarrassing, getting
stuck in the mud of day to day
and that makes you lose vision
or lose height, makes you not
being putting yourself up for
the really important
or strategic things.
And in the end you are there in the
mud and you grow something, you do things
better or worse, but you won’t do
big things like that if you don’t
take your head out.
And the second cause is that
many times companies,
especially when they are younger,
more innovative, etc.,
face many opportunities
and in some cases it is
like you drag the current.
Because sometimes you have made decisions
maybe without putting them out well and
well, because your vision was that and
in the end you are going there.
And that is also a huge problem.
Therefore, we do not tire of
recommending that all possible
mechanisms be used so that this
does not happen, so that we are
not caught in mud and so that
we do not let ourselves be carried
by the current, so that we
have very clear what our strategy is.
This can be done in different ways,
you can hire external consultants,
which happens that the vast
majority are very bad.
You can hire advisors who
will be bringing you an external
view, this is okay,
this can help you.
But what every leader or manager
should do is make a permanent
effort to have a strategic
vision of their company,
where it is going and
what it is doing.
And that’s why we’ve created a framework
that is eight questions, which are
eight key questions, very simple,
that every leader should be able
to answer always and have them very
clear and have them very present.
We have categorized these
questions really into two levels
because they are two levels.
There are questions that are
more strategic and the answers will
not change in the short term, and there
are questions that are more
tactical, more operative, and
that will change.
I will explain one by one.
The first is why we exist, what we dedicate
ourselves to, what is our reason
for being this, we have seen it in
previous classes, is the mission
of the company, why we exist.
The second is what we dream, what
is what you dream, it can not be
that every day you dream with a
different thing because then you
are a velet, you have to have very
clear what your vision is, what
is what you want to.
The third question is how we behave.
These are the values.
We need to be very clear about
what values will guide our
current and future behavior.
They will guide absolutely everything,
they will be determinants of the
business culture.
What do we believe in?
We believe in transparency, we
believe in being very close to customers,
we believe in having happy
employees, we believe in communication,
we believe in innovation.
We have to have it very clear, companies
that have very clear their values,
their principles in what is what
they want and also live in a totally
consistent manner with those
values always goes better, it
is proven.
The fourth question is,
well, we have a mission, we
have a vision, we have values,
but why will we succeed?
So why will we
it?
You have to be very clear about this.
In some cases, it is your competitive
advantage, what makes you
different?
What makes you different from
others?
What makes you different or what makes you different?
It is a broad concept of differentiation,
competitive advantage.
We have seen it in previous
blocks, but we have to have
it very clear.
Why is?
Because we are the best in this or
because our product is better or
because we have a better
customer experience.
Or because, well, there will
be some reason with which you can
explain very clearly how that vision
will come, because if you are not
even able to explain it very
convincingly, I think it is
impossible for you to get it.
The fifth question
is what we offer.
What is our value proposition?
It is not the same as mission.
Your mission can be to help
people acquire the key
knowledge to be professional
success.
But what is it you offer?
It’s a good thing, because it will depend
on the products and services you
have at any time.
But you have to have it very clear,
those products and services, those
value proposals, what problems
they answer or what needs
they meet, etc.
You have to be very clear about this.
These are five strategic thinking
questions that, as I tell you, do not
change from night to morning.
They are stable.
And now let’s go with the three
additional questions that are more tactical,
they are more operative and almost
every week you would have to review them.
And they are three.
The first is, what is most
important now?
You should almost sit down on
Monday morning or repeatedly
with your entire team and say
what is vital now?
Because what can happen if you don’t,
that’s what happens and makes the
diagnosis and sure you happen to you,
is that you put yourself into doing
things.
And what it does is that it is taking
you the current, because you put yourself
to do things, but that’s the most
important thing now.
This is how you create more value for the company.
Probably not.
So I recommend you ask
it every week.
What is the most important?
What do we have with the resources
we have?
What should be the most important
priority in order to create the
most value for the company?
Not to do the things we
have to do, no.
To create the largest value for the
company that is usually created by
creating more value for customers.
Well, that is the first question.
What should be prioritized
in the short term?
The next is, and what are
we doing?
Of our 100% of our time, how much
are we spending on important
things?
I guarantee very little.
and sure.
What are you dedicating?
So, do things, as we always
say, right?
You do things.
But not the important ones.
We need to make this diagnosis.
And the last of the questions is,
well, we already know what is
the priority, what is the important
thing, what is what we have to.
We have made the diagnosis that
in many cases it is not what
we are doing, but we will do it.
We will put concrete plans to
those goals in the very short
term, basically to prioritize
what is important.
What we need to do here is to
set up concrete plans.
We offer you a simple structure.
There are thousands of structures,
but what we can do is the following.
We will identify what the objectives
we have analyzed before.
What is priority now?
What is what we have to?
We will identify tasks
to those goals.
We will set deadlines.
We will assign some responsible.
We will set a budget
if it is.
And also do not escape.